The aim of this preliminary study is to provide information on habitats favourable to O. mayottensis. Passive acoustic monitoring was carried out in Mayotte in three types of habitat (forest, mangrove and agroforest) in order to quantify the vocal activity of the species and to assess the impact of several environmental variables on this activity. New findings concerning the species' vocalisations were also reported. The R scripts used to create the maps of the study site and the statistical analysis of the data can be found in the "scripts" folder.

For statistical analysis of the data, we defined the vocal activity of O. mayottensis as the percentage of singing time (PST) recorded per recording. Since PST is a proportion, it follows a Beta distribution. We also tested for multicollinearity between the explanatory variables (habitat type, usable percentage of recording, presence/absence of rain, percentage of visible moon and distance to nearest urban area) after centring and scaling them. To assess whether sampling duration affected O. mayottensis activity, we conducted a replicate study at the same forest site and tested the significance of this effect using ANOVA with a chi-square test.

To check whether the two AudioMoth devices of each pair placed on each site recorded the same data, we performed an ANCOVA analysis of covariance on a linear model comparing the TSP over the 3 days as a function of the AudioMoth device (first or second component of the pair) for the first 5 sites where the recordings were annotated. To determine the importance of our explanatory variables on the TSP, we fitted a generalized linear mixed model (using glmmTMB software) assuming a Beta distribution, with the sampling site as a random factor since we recorded on three consecutive days at each site. The model was tested using a type III ANOVA with a Wald chi-squared test. Graphical representations of the PST predictions were produced from the generalised linear mixed model using the plot_model() function in the sjPlot package. The model was validated using the simulateResiduals() function in the DHARMa package.


